welcome back to another video in this
video i will show you how to develop a
trading algorithm
that bases its trading decisions on
fundamental factors
such as the size quality and value of a
given company
i will code this algorithm in python
inside of the quantconnect algorithmic
trading platform
the reason why we will be using
quantconnect is that you get access to
all their data and backtesting
capabilities for free
this is the fourth video in the series
of python trading bots and i believe
this is going to be the biggest project
yet
i will do my best to explain everything
to the best of my abilities
nonetheless i have to say that we will
be using some of quantconnect's more
advanced features
such as the algorithm framework
therefore i highly recommend watching
some of the other videos
before this video if you're new to
quantconnect or python
that said let's start by breaking down
the trading strategy that we will
implement
in this video on a conceptual level
doing so will hopefully help you
understand
what our code is supposed to do as i
said earlier
this algorithm will base its trading
decisions on a company's fundamental
values
we won't be using any technical
indicators for the trading decisions
but if you want to that is definitely
something you could add to potentially
improve its performance
more specifically we will rank stocks
based on the company's quality
value and size research has shown that
historically speaking small cap stocks
seem to outperform larger cap stocks
this effect is also known as the size
effect
there are multiple possible explanations
for this behavior but the most widely
accepted are
that smaller cap stocks tend to have
worse liquidity than large cap stocks
which makes them less suitable for
trading for institutional trading firms
furthermore small cap stocks have more
potential to grow
and are much more flexible nonetheless
it's important to note that small cap
stocks can also be riskier than large
cap stocks
due to this size effect we will give
each stock a size score based on its
market cap
in a similar manner researchers also
found that there exists a value effect
this effect entails that stocks with
relatively high book to value ratios
tend to outperform those with a low book
value compared to their price
if you want to read more about this
value and size factor you can check out
the quant pedia entries that are linked
in the description box below
besides book value we will also use the
ratio of free cash flow to enterprise
value
and the most recent earnings yields when
giving each stock a value score
the higher the perceived value of a
stock the more interesting we are in
buying it
last but not least we also gave each
stock a so-called quality score
for this we will use three fundamental
values
firstly we will take the gross margin
which is the ratio of gross profits to
revenue into account
next up we will examine the quick ratio
which is the ratio of liquid assets to
current liabilities
this is basically just a measure of
liquidity finally we will also look at
the debt to assets ratio
which examines the percentage of the
company that is financed by debt
in this ranking companies with high
margins good liquidity
and low debt will receive a good score
and thus be preferred by our algorithm
when calculating the size value and
quality scores for each stock
we won't use the actual value of the
underlying fundamental factors
instead we will just rank the stocks
compared to each other
so for instance having a high book to
price ratio
isn't that important as long as you have
a higher ratio than other comparable
stocks
before we can actually make any trading
decisions we must first combine our size
value and quality score
in a meaningful way for this we will
multiply each score by a given weight
and then add them all up now we have a
combined score for each stock that we
looked at
out of these stocks we will then buy
those stocks with the best score and
hold on to them unless their score is
full
before we jump into the quant connect
platform and start coding
let me recap the strategy one more time
our algorithm will look at some of the
most liquid stocks
and for each of these stocks it will
calculate a separate size
value and quality score thereafter
it will combine these scores into one
total score
based on this the algorithm will then
buy those stocks with the highest score
that said let's now head over to quant
connect
for the coding part of this video i
highly recommend coding along
to do so you just quickly have to create
a free con connect account
there's a link in the description box
below
before we get into the actual coding
though i briefly want to note that i
drew a lot of inspiration
from jack simonsen's code that he posted
in his fundamental factory long short
strategy community post
so thanks for that post jack inside of
the quant connect platform
we will head over to the lab tab there
we can click on create new algorithm
this will give you an overview of
modules as well as some sample code to
get started
like i said in the beginning of this
video we will be using quant connect
algorithm framework
more on that in a few seconds for now we
just want to input three modules by
clicking on them
the first module is the inside weighted
portfolio construction model
we will use this to automatically
construct a portfolio for us
the second module that we will import is
the immediate execution model
which automatically opens or closes
trades if our algorithm sends the
corresponding signals
last but not least we will input the
maximum drawdown risk model
this model allows us to specify a
percentage and as soon as the position's
loss reaches this percentage
this model will automatically manage the
exit process of that position
after inputting these three modules it's
time to click on the create algorithm
button in the bottom right corner
this will create a sample algorithm with
two predefined methods
the on data method is called every time
the algorithm receives new data
but since we will be using the algorithm
framework we won't need this so we can
delete it
like the name implies the initialize
method is for initializing settings
functions and variables that we need for
our algorithm
before we start actually implementing
the initialize method i want to briefly
present to you quantconnect's algorithm
framework
since this is going to be an essential
tool for this algorithm
the general design pattern of more
complex trading algorithms
is a project that's divided into at
least five to six separate modules
if you want to see detailed breakdown of
these five to six models
i highly recommend watching my trading
algorithms explained video
there's a link in the description box
below in this video i will just give you
a short overview of this framework
the algorithm framework consists of five
modules the first one
is the so called universe selection
model this is where the algorithm
decides which securities it considers
when looking for potential trades
here you could consider things such as
liquidity price
industry or whatever for our algorithm
we will look at the most liquid
securities that have fundamental data
that we need available
next up we have the alpha model this is
probably the most important model
since this is where your edge comes into
play the alpha model's role
is to send out trade signals it does not
directly send out any trade orders
though
instead it just passes on trade
recommendations to the portfolio
construction model
this model then constructs an
appropriate portfolio based on these
trade signals
one of the simplest form of a portfolio
construction model
is an equal weighted model which
allocates an equal share of your
portfolio capital
to each position for our algorithm we
will use an inside weighted allocation
but more on that later besides that
there also is a transaction cost model
which models transaction costs
it does this so it can determine whether
a given trade is even worth your money
if the accompanying transaction costs
are too high
it might not be worth it we won't be
implementing such a model in our
algorithm though
next up is the risk model like the name
implies the risk model is the risk
management unit of an algorithm
it decides when to take profits and when
to cut losses
we will start off by using a relatively
simple risk model namely the maximum
drawdown model
this model closes a position as soon as
it exceeds a certain predetermined
percentage drawdown
last but not least we have the execution
model this model's job
is to send out the actual trade orders
especially if you're opening or closing
large positions you wouldn't want to
just send out one big trade order
instead you would want to divide your
position into many smaller orders
and send those as an adequate time
determining the optimal order size
and time is what the execution model is
for for our algorithm we will just be
using a very simple immediate execution
model
besides separation of concerns a huge
advantage of using a such an algorithm
framework
is that it is incredibly easy to
exchange the individual components
you can basically think of these blocks
as different building parts for trading
algorithms
you can easily just exchange how your
portfolio is constructed
or how it manages its risk simply by
changing one or two lines
that is very powerful furthermore
quantconnect actually offers a wide
range of predefined modules
when creating our algorithm we already
imported a portfolio construction
risk and execution model so these three
lines of code already take care
of managing our portfolio its risks and
trade order management
isn't that just awesome so all that's
left to do now
is to implement a universe selection
model and an alpha model
we will start with the universe
selection model right after we
implemented the initialized method
we'll start by setting the start and end
date for our bag tests
it really doesn't matter which dates you
choose here i will just go with the past
8 years
next up we set the starting cache
balance for the back tests
this is just for back testing purposes
in real trading this figure will be
fetched from your broker platform's
account balance
i will set the starting cash balance to
100 000
next up we set the execution model to
the immediate execution model
as soon as this model receives a trade
signal it will send out an order
after that we set the portfolio
construction model to the inside
weighted portfolio construction model
this model receives allocation weights
from the alpha model
then creates a portfolio based on these
weights
thereafter we set the risk model to the
maximum drawdown model
this model takes one argument namely the
percentage loss after which it should
exit the position
we will set this to 10 for now but feel
free to try out different values
now it's time to initialize a few
variables that we will use for the
universe selection
to better understand this let me quickly
outline how we will implement the
universe selection for this algorithm
we will add a universe using two filters
a rougher course filter
and a fine filter the course filter
allows us to filter out securities
based on their price dollar volume and
whether they are fundamental data or not
here we pick those stocks that have a
price over five dollars
sufficient liquidity and fundamental
data
this collection of securities will then
be passed on to the fine filter
here we filter out the securities that
don't have the right values for the
fundamental factors
that we need to score the stocks as
helper variables
we will use self.nom course and
self.numfine
these define how many securities we look
at in the course filter and
fine filter we initialize self.numcores
to 200
which means that we will filter out the
200 most liquid securities
that fulfill the other criteria and pass
those onto the fine filter
later on we will then filter out the 20
stocks with the best quality value and
size scores
and trade them that's why we initialize
self.numfine to 20.
next up we initialize self.lastmonth to
-1
we will later use this variable as a
flag so that we can only rebalance
output for you once a month
after that we set the resolution of our
universe to daily resolution
this means we receive daily data
quantconnect also supports a resolution
as low as minutely
but we'll just use daily resolution for
this video
now we just have to use add universe to
add our stock universe
as arguments we submit two methods in
the course and find filter
which we'll implement now
let's start with the course filter
the first thing that we will do in the
course filter is check if it's time to
rebalance
if it isn't we will just return an
unchanged universe
otherwise we update the self.last month
flag to the current month
then it's time to sort all the given
security objects by dollar volume
but we only want to save those that have
a price greater than 5 dollars
and that have fundamental data
we then save this list to the selected
variable
last but not least we return that first
200 symbols of the selected list
this is specified by the self.nom course
variable
which we defined earlier
this list is then passed on to the find
filter which we'll implement now
all we want to do in the fine filter is
filter out those securities that have a
value greater than 0
for each fundamental factor that we will
use
these factors include gross margin quick
ratio
debt to assets
book value per share
cash return
earnings yield
and market cap we filter out the
non-null values because sometimes
these values are set to 0 if the
algorithm can't find an actual value
for a list of all fundamental factors
that quant connect allows you to use
you can check out the linked
documentation page in the description
box below
now all that's left to do in the find
filter is return this filtered file
list
with that we've now successfully
implemented the universe selection model
for this algorithm
let's now head back to the initialize
method and start adding a few variables
for the alpha model
here we will create a couple of
variables which will be some parameters
for the alpha model
the first three parameters are the
weights for the quality value
and size scores as you hopefully
remember
our algorithm gives each stock in our
stock universe a quality
value and size score these scores then
have to be combined by multiplying each
score with a weight
and then summing them up here we define
the weights for each score
i will give the quality and value scores
a weight of 2 and the size score a
weight of 1.
note that we will normalize these scores
in the alpha model so it's just the
relationship between these weights
that's important
not the actual values themselves so 2 2
and 1 would be the same as 0.4
0.4 and 0.2 this weighting means
that the quality and value scores have a
bigger impact on the combined score
than the size score now all that's left
to do
is add the actual alpha model this can
be accomplished with self dot add alpha
here i will submit an instance of
fundamental factor alpha model
as an argument to construct this model
we need to pass our parameters as the
arguments
before we can actually use this alpha
model though we have to implement it
for this i will create a new file and
call it alphamodel.pi
in this file we will implement the
fundamental factor alpha model class
to use this class we have to import it
in our main file
with import fundamental factor alpha
model from alpha model
in the alpha model file we will import
time delta from date time since we might
need this later
as fundamental factor alpha model is
supposed to be an alpha
model we want to declare it as a
subclass of alpha model
just like in the main file we will start
by implementing an initialize method
however this time we'll use an actual
class constructor instead of a
predefined initialize method
this init constructor method is called
when we initialize an instance of this
class in the main method
here we will just initialize a couple of
helper variables such as self.last month
and sales.longs which is a list that
will hold the stock symbols
that we want to buy besides that we also
initialize self.numfine
to the past argument we also set
self.periods to time letter 31.
this specifies for which time frame we
want to hold each stock position
time delta of 31 means that we want to
hold each long position for at least one
month
unless the risk model tells us otherwise
next up
we also want to initialize the quality
value and size weights
however before we do this we first want
to normalize them
so that their sum equals 1. for this
we first save the three values to a list
and then normalize this list
by dividing each value by the sum of all
values in this list
after that we can initialize the quality
value and size weights
the first second and third element of
this weights list
now we're already done with the
initialize method which means we can
finally move on to the most interesting
part of this algorithm
for this let me quickly explain to you
how the different methods of an alpha
model work
first off we have the unsecurities
changed method
this method is automatically called when
the security is added or removed from
our algorithm
so when the universe selection model
adds new securities to its universe
this method will automatically get
called
in this method we then want to assign a
score to each of those securities
besides that we also have the update
method
this one is automatically called every
time the algorithm receives new data
for a subscribed symbol so if for
instance there is a new price data
available
for a given stock the update method will
be called
this is where we want to send out the
actual trade signals so that the
portfolio construction model can create
a portfolio out of them
we will start by implementing the
unsecurities changed method
the first thing we do here is create a
list called added
in which we save all the added security
objects
the next step is to calculate a quality
value and size score for each of these
securities
we will do this in a separate method
that i will call scores
we will implement that in a few seconds
first let's understand how this scores
method
will be called we wanted to be able to
calculate a score
for quality value and size metrics which
is why we have to keep it quite general
to accomplish this the schools method
takes two arguments
the first argument is a list of
securities this will just be the added
securities list
the next parameter is a little more
complex
it is a list of tuples with three
elements each
the first element is a lambda function
which maps a symbol to a fundamental
value such as gross margin
or market cap and the second element of
the tuple
is a boolean which specifies whether we
want to order the securities based on
the fundamental value reverse
or not reverse for the depth to asset
value for instance
we prefer stocks that have a lower value
whereas we prefer stocks with high
gross margins that's why this boolean
value
is true for margins but falls for debt
to assets
and the third element of the tuple is a
number that specifies the weight of this
fundamental value
for the quality score for example we
look at the gross margin quick ratio
and debt to assets ratio each of these
values gets its own weight
the simplest weighting would be an equal
one but you could also give certain
factors more weight than others
the submitted weights will be normalized
in the scores method which is why the
actual values don't matter as much as
the relationship between the different
weights
for the value score for instance we give
the book value per share
value a weight of 0.5 and the other two
values a weight of 0.25
this means that the book value per share
has twice the impact on the value
ranking
as the cash return or earnings yield
before we can actually use the scores
method though we must implement it
so let's do that before we move on with
the unsecurities changed method
like i just said this method takes two
arguments first a list of securities
which are saved in the added variable
and a list of tuples with three elements
each this list is saved into the
fundamentals list
the first thing we want to do in this
method is save the length of this list
into a helper variable
the length of this list is the number of
individual fundamental metrics that we
will consider
for the scoring if the length is 0 we
don't have any fundamentals to look at
which is why we then just return an
empty dictionary
otherwise we create a couple more helper
variables that we will need in this
method
the scores dictionary is where we'll
save the scores for each symbol besides
that
we create two more lists which we'll
need in a moment
next up we will normalize the weights
that we submitted for each fundamental
indicator
we save these normalized weights into
the weights list
thereafter we want to create a sorted
list that orders the symbols by their
fundamental values
this creates a list for each fundamental
value with the first values are those
with the most desired values
we save these lists in the sorted by
list
now the last step is to create and save
a score for each security
based on these sorted lists for this we
iterate through an enumeration of the
first list
of the sorted by list this basically
just gives us an
index for each symbol in this list
to calculate the score for a given
security we find out in which position
of the sorted list it is
the further back it is the worse this
rank is
we then add the ranks for each
fundamental factor multiplied by their
weights to get the score
when we have this score we save it to
the school's dictionary
after we've done this for every security
in the added list we return the scores
dictionary
with this method we can now easily
calculate a score for a list of
different fundamental factors
if we now head back to the unsecurities
change method
we already have a quality value and size
score
if you want to use different fundamental
factors than the ones i used here
you can easily change them without
having to change the scores method
or anything else in the alpha model
to change the weighting of the
individual fundamentals you can just
change the third value
in the tuples of the fundamentals list
now all that's left to do in the
unsecurities change method
is combine the quality value and size
score into one total score
we do this in a very similar manner as
we already did in the scores method
first we save an empty dictionary to the
scores variable
here we will save the total scores for
each symbol
then we iterate through the items of the
quality scores dictionary
we then save the quality value and size
score for each symbol in the quality
value and size rank variables
finally we then multiply the quality
rank by the quality weight
the value rank by the value weight and
the size rank by the size weight
and then add them all up
the result is then saved to the scores
dictionary for each symbol
we now have a total score for each
symbol
after that we sort the scores from
lowest to highest
the lower the score the better we then
save the sorted securities from the best
to worst in the sorted stock list
in the sorted symbol list we then save
the first 20 securities
of the stocks with the best scores
20 is the value which we assign to
self.numfine in the initialize method
in the main file
all that's left to do now is save the
symbol of each of the stocks in the
sorted symbol list
the self.longs list which we'll use for
our trade signals
before we move on to the update method
however we also want to log
each symbol and score from the longs
list so that we can actually view the
assigned scores in the back
and live trading we can do this with
algorithm.log
with that we are now done implementing
the unsecurities change method
now we just have to implement the update
method and then we are pretty much done
the update method is where the actual
trade signals are sent out
but we only want trade signals to be
sent out once a month
that's why we first used the last month
variable to test if it's time to send
new trade signals
if it's time to rebalance we update the
last month variable
then we create an empty list called
insights
this is the list that will hold the
actual trade signals which are known as
inside objects the update method has to
return a list of inside objects so that
the portfolio construction model
can construct a portfolio from them but
more on how insights work in a few
moments
before we start opening new positions we
first want to close all positions
that haven't made it into the self.longs
to accomplish this we iterate through
algorithm.portfolio.values
for each security object we then test if
it's invested and not in self.longs
if both of these conditions are
fulfilled we want to send a trade signal
that tells other models that we want to
close this position
to accomplish this we will append an
inside object to the insides list
for this let me quickly outline what an
inside object looks like
a standard inside object constructor
takes eight arguments
of which some have default values the
first argument is a security symbol
so that other models understand for
which security this insight is
the next argument is a time frame so
that it's clear
for which time frame this insight is
valid
if nothing else is specified the
position will automatically be closed
when the time has passed
we will use self.period which was
initialized to 31 days for this
next up we have to specify the type of
insight
most of the time you will probably want
a price inside but you could also submit
an insight for other things such as
volatility
since price insights are much more
common it's also possible to create a
price inside by using this method
inside.price with a few arguments but we
will use the more general version here
the fourth argument is the direction of
the inside
here you can specify the predicted
direction for the given security since
we want to close any potential open
position
we will use inside direction.flat
the next four arguments are optional and
have a default value of none
they are the magnitude confidence source
model and weight of the
inside depending on the portfolio
construction model
these values can have an effect on the
constructed portfolio
but since we just want to close some
open positions we won't be passing any
values here
now we have successfully closed any
unwanted open positions
which means that we can now finally
submit buy insights for the securities
in the self.longs list to do so we first
save the length of the self.longs list
into the variable length
thereafter we iterate from 0 to this
length
for each eye we then append a buy inside
for the i
element in the long symbols list to our
inside list
once again we will use self.period for
the second argument
and inside.price for the third
since we're interested in a long
position we submit a bullish insight
with direction.up
unlike before we do want to pass a value
for the confidence and weight parameters
of the inside object for this algorithm
we don't actually need a confidence
value but if you'd go with a different
portfolio construction model
it could be useful what we do need
however
is a value for the last parameter which
is the weight of the given inside
in the initialize method of the main
algorithm class
we set our portfolio model to the inside
weighted portfolio model
this model bases its portfolio
allocations on the weight parameter of
each submitted insight
so the larger the weight of a given
insight compared to other insights
the more capital that position will
receive
since the long symbols list is sorted
from best to worst score
we want to allocate more money to those
securities with the best score
and those with a worse score we don't
want the difference in waiting to be
linear
instead we will use a simple quadratic
equation to calculate the weight
to accomplish this we simply subtract i
from the length variable
which was defined to be the length of
this long symbols list
then we square this value doing so will
mean that the stock with the worst score
out of the long symbols list will always
have a weight of 1
whereas the stock with the best score
will have a weight of length
squared these values will automatically
be normalized in the portfolio
construction model
now what this left to do is return this
insights list
and we are done with implementing the
alpha model
before we finally start testing this
algorithm there's one very small thing i
want to add to the main file
to show you how to create custom plots
let's quickly create a method
that plots the number of open positions
in the portfolio
for this we will create a method called
plotting
in it we create a custom plot by calling
self.plot
this takes three arguments the first is
the name of the chart to plot on
the second is the name of the actual
plot on this chart and the final is the
data to be plotted
to plot the number of open positions we
use the length of the list with all open
positions
now all we have to do is schedule this
method so that it's called on a regular
basis
we can do this instead of the initialize
method with the help of self.schedule
self.schedule takes three arguments
firstly we have to specify on which
dates you want to schedule something
the second argument specifies at which
time
and the final argument tells the
algorithm what you want to schedule
we want to schedule self.plotting at 10
30 am
every monday the exact date and time
doesn't really matter we just want it to
be cooled once a week
now we can finally start backtesting
this algorithm
to do so we simply have to click on the
back test button
in the top right corner then you have to
wait for the back test to finish up
depending on the time frame resolution
and algorithm's efficiency
this can take a few seconds up to 20
minutes or even longer
however this algorithm shouldn't take
longer than a couple of minutes
when the back test is finished up a
performance overview with a bunch of
stats and charts will be generated
here it's very important to understand
that these results are the results from
the exact period
you chose to backtest algorithm for just
because these results are good over a
certain period
does not mean that they will be good
over another or in real trading
in the top right corner you can select
which chart should be displayed
the positions chart is the custom chart
we created to plot the number of open
positions at any given time
the other charts are automatically
generated for you
besides seeing a few general performance
metrics at the top
you can also view an equity chart below
that
if you scroll down further you can also
view a bunch of other metrics
one of the most interesting metrics is
the sharp ratio
this ratio basically is a measure of
risk-adjusted returns
the higher this value is the better
i don't want to spend too much time
analyzing these results since that's not
the point of this video
but if you want a more detailed
breakdown of how to evaluate a trading
strategy
make sure to check out my video on that
topic
besides these metrics you can also
choose to look at all the orders that
the algorithm sent
or view the logs of the algorithm down
here
when we click on the logs tab we can see
a list of the symbols and the scores
since this is what we logged in the
unsecurities changed method of the alpha
model
but now let's head back to the algorithm
instead of showing you the results over
a specific time frame
there are a few more very useful
features that i want to show you
first off i want to demonstrate why the
algorithm framework is so useful
right now this algorithm's risk model is
the maximum drawdown model
this means it closes the position if its
loss exceeds a certain amount
if we would want to change this to a
trading stop risk model instead of a
fixed risk model we can easily do so by
changing maximum drawdown percent per
security
to trading stop risk management model
this tiny one line change
changes the entire risk model
besides a trailing stop risk model you
can also choose one of the other
predefined risk models or create your
own
you can do the exact same thing for the
portfolio construction model
execution model or any of the others
changes that otherwise might require
restructuring your entire algorithm
can now be done with one line change
when using the algorithm framework
i know that the algorithm framework can
be a little confusing at first
that's also why i recommend starting
with classical algorithms that don't use
it
but once you understand a normal
algorithm switching to the algorithm
framework
does certainly have its advantages
next up let me show you one more amazing
feature that was recently added to the
quant connect platform
namely parameter optimization you might
have noticed these yellow dotted lines
in my code
these indicate the parameters of an
algorithm this indication can be turned
on or off under your profile settings
a parameter is a variable such as the
quality value and size weights
changing values such as the quality
weight can have a significant impact on
your algorithm's performance
finding the right value for each
parameter is a huge challenge
in the quantitative trading community
generally speaking it's best to have
relatively few parameters
instead of having too many the more
parameters you have the easier it is to
overfit your algorithm to a certain data
set
that's why more dynamic models that
automatically adapt usually are better
than using a fixed number
to best understand parameters and how to
optimize them
let's take a look at the stop risk
variable
in the beginning i set the stop risk
variable 0.1 or 10 percent
i never really gave you a reason why i
did this and i couldn't really give you
a good reason why i chose 10
over percent 15 or some other value
one way to optimize a parameter is to
look at a bunch of different back
tests and compare the performance of the
algorithm with different parameter
values
sadly it is very hard to reliably do
this if you have many parameters
since the search space becomes gigantic
furthermore this solution isn't perfect
since it can lead to overfitting
so always be cautious when optimizing an
algorithm's parameters
let me show you how quantconnect allows
you to optimize an algorithm's
parameters with the example of the stop
risk parameter
first off we need to formally define
this variable to be a parameter
we can do this with self.getperimetry
this method gets the value of a
parameter and sets it to the stop risk
variable
if however the get parameter can't find
a value for this parameter
we still want the algorithm to work
that's why we test if stop risk is none
and if it is we set it to a default
value such as 10 percent
now we can set the parameter by adding
it to the algorithm
at the bottom left hand side bar here
you just have to enter stop risk which
is the name we specified in the get
parameter method and next up
we can click on the edit symbol to set
it to a certain value
such as 10 percent the reason why this
can be useful
is that it allows you to change your
parameters without actually editing the
source code of the algorithm
this is a great feature for testing and
live trading
since you might not always want to edit
the actual code
now we can click on the optimize button
next to the backtest button
this opens a new tab which allows us to
set optimize conditions
for now grid search is the only
optimization strategy so that's what we
will use
next up you can choose to maximize or
minimize the sharp ratio annual return
probabilistic sharp ratio
or drawdown we will just go with
maximizing the sharp ratio
then we click on next which allows us to
select which parameters we want to
optimize for
currently you can only optimize two
parameters at a time
we want to optimize the stop risk
parameter as its minimum value we choose
one percent
and as the max we go with 25 percent
furthermore we change the step size to
one percent
optionally you can also add some
constraints for the sharp ratio
annual return or drawdown down here we
won't be adding any constraints for now
though after clicking next one more time
we can select a compute node as well as
the maximum nodes allowed to use
simultaneously
note that the optimize feature currently
isn't available for free
instead you have to pay a few cents to
dollars depending on the number of
backtests and computational complexity
as you can see here the estimated wait
time for this optimization
is 5 minutes and the number of factors
is 25
and the estimated cost is only about 30
cents
let me now click on optimize and then
skip ahead to when it's finished
welcome back here you can view an
overview of the optimize results page
this chart up here shows the results of
the back tests with different values for
the stop risk parameter
as you can see there are significant
performance differences for different
values
right below that we can see a couple of
scatter plots that can help you analyze
the relationship
between values of the parameters and
some other performance metrics
if we scroll down to the bottom of this
page we can see a more detailed
breakdown of each bag test
here we can sort the back test by
probabilistic sharp ratio
sharp ratio net profit drawdown and the
actual parameter values
i will sort them from best to earth
sharp ratio here
10 actually is the best value with a
sharp ratio of 0.512
and a net profit of over 97 over this
time frame
12 seems to be the next best value and
then 5
note that if we look at net profit
instead of sharp ratio 12 percent
actually is the best
value similarly the best parameter
values
change if you sort the back test by
other metrics for instance
a stop risk value of one percent yields
the lowest drawdown of 27
which makes sense since it's a very
tight stop-loss
however a stop risk value of only one
percent also only generates a net return
of under fifty percent
which means that the sharp ratio of that
back test is actually one of the worst
note that this is with the trailing stop
risk model and not with the maximum
drawdown risk model
besides the metrics displayed here you
can also click on columns to select
other performance metrics to look at and
sort by
besides that you can also filter the
backtests by other criteria
in the filter tab this can be especially
useful
if you're analyzing hundreds or even
thousands of bacters at the same time
but note that if you look at different
time frames or change some other
parameter values
10 percent might not actually be the
optimal value anymore
for a more detailed view of each of the
back tests you can click on the backtest
name
this will bring you to a standard
backtest view of the selected backtest
besides the stop risk parameter it is
also possible to use this optimize
feature for other parameters such as the
quality value and size weights
just make sure not to over optimize your
algorithms to the available backtest
data
better backtest results don't always
lead to better real-world performance
speaking of live trading i usually get a
bunch of questions regarding how to live
trade your algorithms
so let me quickly show you how to trade
an algorithm live through quant connect
to do so you just have to click on the
go live button next to the optimize
button
this will then allow you to select from
the currently supported broker platforms
through which quant connect allows you
to trade currently
interactive brokers probably is the most
popular choice but hopefully more
brokers will be added in the future
if you just want to test your algorithm
by paper trading it you can also do so
by selecting paper trading here
note that live trading an algorithm
requires you to always have a server
node up
so that it is always ready to
communicate with the connected broker
that's why you need an upgraded account
to live trade through quantconnect
the cost of this starts at about 30 a
month which in my opinion is a fair
price
that said i would not necessarily
recommend trading this algorithm live
the goal of this video and algorithm was
to show you how to start developing your
own trading algorithms
i'm not claiming that this is a
particularly good trading algorithm
some problems of the algorithm include
high correlation to the market
possible overfitting transaction costs
many parameters and more
if you want to practice your algorithm
development skills you could use this
project
as a base and add your own alterations
improvements and experiments to it
possible exercises include exchanging
some parameters with more dynamic models
trying out other ratings including the
actual stock scores as insight weights
for the portfolio construction
improving the scoring system
implementing some of the other models
yourself
or even adding other components to the
alpha model such as a momentum technical
based factor
i left a link in the description box
that allows you to clone the entire code
from this video
if you like this video i highly
recommend checking out some of my other
videos
instead of my algorithmic trading
playlist that said
definitely make sure to smash the like
button subscribe and turn on the
notification bell
for more content like this thanks for
watching